# Step 3: Offbox IOS-XR CLI automation over SSH

In order to do offbox automation, we would still need to construct the python code in its entirety and use techniques to transfer the code to the router before executing it. In a sense this mimics the behaviour we saw in the previous section.  

You can certainly construct your own python based SSH handler using tools such as [paramiko](http://www.paramiko.org/). For the sake of brevity, we will instead jump over to the use of Ansible to perform these tasks for us since it already utilizes SSH and/or paramiko internally.

For Paramiko or for Ansible, the recommendation will be to utilize direct ssh access to the IOS-XR bash shell to accomplish our tasks, since it gives you a Linux shell to work with - the default shell environment that these tools understand. Access to these shells is described below:

<p style="margin: 2em 0!important;padding: 1em;font-family: CiscoSans,Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;font-size: 1em !important;text-indent: initial;background-color: #e6f2f7;border-radius: 5px;box-shadow: 0 1px 1px rgba(0,127,171,0.25);">This is already setup for you in the current environment. If you'd like to enable direct ssh access into the IOS-XR bash shell just drop into the shell from IOS-XR CLI using the "bash" CLI and issue the command: <br/>`service sshd_operns start`<br/>This will start the opensshd process in the default/global-vrf. <br/>You will then have access to the IOS-XR bash shell directly on port `57722`<br/><br/>In the current setup, this port `57722` for each router has already been forwarded over appropriate ports. Further, the user `admin` in the shell is set up to enable passwordless sudo access through edits in `/etc/sudoers`.  <br/><br/><u><font color="red">**Router R1**</font></u><br/>**Username**: admin<br/>**Password**: admin<br/>**XR-Bash SSH port**: 2222<br/>**IP**: 10.10.20.170
<br/><br/>
<u><font color="red">**Router r2**</font></u><br/>**Username**: admin<br/>**Password**: admin<br/>**XR-Bash SSH port**: 2232<br/>**IP**: 10.10.20.170
</p>  

Let's move onto the next section to utilize Ansible over these SSH ports and execute a couple of sample python scripts remotely over SSH.
